Scanning for the NetBIOS Service
The NetBIOS service listens
on TCP port 139
as well as several UDP ports.
It should be noted that SMB,
which listens on TCP port 445,
is a separate protocol from NetBIOS.
NetBIOS is an independent
session layer protocol
and service that allows computers on a
local network to communicate
with each other.
While modern implementations of
SMB can work without NetBIOS,
NetBIOS over TCP is required for
backward compatibility
and is often enabled together.
For this reason, the enumeration of these
two services often goes hand-in-hand.
We can use nmap to easily
scan for both ports.
There are other, more specialized tools
for specifically identifying
NetBIOS information, such as nbtscan.
The -r option is used to specify
local UDP port 137,
which is used to query the
NetBIOS name service
for valid NetBIOS names.
nbtscan is very fast and returns
a lot of useful information.